in this video I'm going to talk all
about the Google search term report and
why it's useful so going to give you a
quick tutorial here um when you go ahead
and log into Google ads um on the left
side there's going to be a insights and
reports tab on that um left column and
then you'll go to search terms so this
is your Search terms report um and
essentially what the Search terms report
is is it's a report that allows you to
see what Search terms are triggering
your ads so these are different from
keywords keywords are specific keywords
that you chose um to put into Google so
that you're telling Google what keyword
you want to show up for Search terms is
how the user actually searched to
trigger your ads um so the search term
might not necessarily match directly
with the keyword that you chose and
we'll be able to look at some of that
information within the search term
report so you can see um but essentially
what you want to do is go to the search
term report and then toggle and choose
the specific time frame that you want to
see after you choose the time frame
you're going to be able to see all the
Search terms um during that time period
and you can open it up up to 500 Search
terms per uh per section that you can
actually see and then you could sort it
by clicks Impressions and you can pull
in specific metrics so that you could
see the performance of these Search
terms um on your campaign um so then
something else that you want to see is
you could see the specific match type
what match type matched to this search
term be able to see what keyword and add
group triggered it and then something
else that you could also do too is you
could see what specific keyword
triggered that so just like i' mentioned
the keyword might not actually match
with the search term um so you'll see
how it matched here specifically so in
this case someone typed in hospice care
but then it matched up the hospice care
services in exact match um so it is a
close variant it's not exact exact but
it is a close variant of the exact um so
you'll be able to see how close your
specific um keywords are matching to
your Search terms and whether they're
even useful now let's say that you are
offering Hospice Services but then you
want to block out anyone searching for
four levels of ospice care Medicare um
let's see actually let's just say that
you want to block out in uh let's
see let me find one that's relevant oh
amenity hospice care I already blocked
it out um so you could see that this was
added as a negative keyword essentially
what this will allow us to do is um two
things uh with the search term report
you can add new keywords based off of
what you're seeing that you don't
already have have or uh the most common
uh thing is using it to add negative
keyword so as you can see amenity
Hospice Care this is a competitor we
don't want to be matching to competitors
so therefore we can add it as a negative
keyword and then once you do that then
it will show as
excluded um but if you wanted to add
let's say free Hospice Care near me
because you don't have that in your
keyword build you can just select that
and you can add as the keyword but if
you wanted to block it you would add it
as a negative keyword um so that's
essentially how you would go about best
using it um one big thing that I wanted
to call out when it comes to the Search
terms report is you will not have access
to all the data for every single keyword
search unfortunately over the past
several years Google has pulled back a
lot on uh providing this data due to
privacy reasons so you won't be able to
see every single search term that
triggered um an ad unfortunately I wish
Google would bring it back um but before
it was a lot more strict and Google
started bringing it back a little more
because a lot of people were complaining
what I mean by that is that we have I'm
going to pull this down
here over the lifetime of this campaign
we spent
12,000 close to
$13,000 but we're only able to see close
to $7,000 worth of Search
terms that's a huge loss in terms of
what we can't see so there's $5,000
worth of Search terms and money that we
spent on the
campaign let's just call this like half
um I know it's a little bit less than
half um but I'm just going to say that
you're you're losing like half of your
data um and in other campaigns that I've
ran I've seen it as bad as like 60 to
70% of lost data so unfortunately things
that fall under the other category
unfortunately there's not enough people
in this bucket to show the information
because Google's trying to protect their
identity so unfortunately we were not
able to see
what clicks and what Search terms out of
these 758 clicks actually triggered so
we will not be able to add negative
keywords based off of this data it's a
huge loss um but unfortunately there's
no real way to get it before there used
to be a way to get it in Google
analytics but now unfortunately we won't
be able to see that so just wanted to
call that out just so that you're aware
you won't be able to see everything but
you'll still be able to see something um
unfortunately they're showing you search
terms for um searches that only have
like one impression that doesn't really
do anything for us really um but it can
also help like if you're running a brand
new campaign and you don't really know
the industry that well at least you'll
see if you're matching to anything
that's completely irrelevant you can go
ahead and block them out so that's
really it in terms of the Search terms
report in a nutshell um and for this
Google ads basic series I just wanted to
share exactly how I use it to my
advantage um and how you can use it to
your advantage as well so if you have
any questions go ahead and drop them in
the comments below please give this
video a thumbs up as well as please
subscribe to this channel I love to have
your support um as I continue to release
more videos and if you're looking for a
Google ads consultant or expert to help
manage your Google ads campaign I'd be
more than happy to have a conversation
with you and you can book a discovery
call below all right well I'll see you
guys in the next video